.\" Manpage for statsd-cli command line utility
.\" Contact j.m.slocum@gmail.com for corrections or typos.
.TH man 1 "22 Jan 2013" "1.0" "statsd-cli man page"

.SH NAME
statsd-cli \- Send statistical data to a statsd server from the command line.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B statsd-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR]... stat

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Send a statistic to a statsd server from the command line.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print the version number and help message
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-server\fR
specify the hostname or ip address of the statsd server,
default is "localhost"
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR
specify the port number to send stats to, default is 8125
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR
set the namespace for the stats, the namespace is prepended to the front
of the bucket
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bucket\fR
set the bucket name for the stats
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR
specify the stat type being sent. valid types are
\fBcount\fR, \fBset\fR, \fBgauge\fR, \fBtiming\fR
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rate\fR
specify the sample rate for this stat

.SH TYPES
.TP
\fBcount\fR
This type is used for adding or removing values from the specified bucket. The
value of the current count is sent to the back end by statsd each time statsd 
flushes. The bucket is reset to zero after each flush. 
.TP
\fBset\fR
This type is used for counting unique occurrences of events between flushes,
using a set to store all occurring events.
.TP
\fBgauge\fR
This type allows the value of a bucket to be set to an arbitrary value. A useful
example of this is logging how many users are currently connected to a web server.
.TP
\fBtiming\fR
This type can be used to record times in milliseconds that some task took.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
statsd-cli -s statsd.example.com -n some.namespace -b times -t timing 350
This would send a value of 350 milliseconds to the statsd server for some.namespace.times

.SH AUTHORS
Written by James M. Slocum [j.m.slocum@gmail.com]

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 James M. Slocum
.PP
This software is made freely available under the MIT license
